Assignment: Building a Basic CRUD Application with Rails

Assignment Overview:
In this assignment, you will guide students through the process of creating a basic CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) application using Ruby on Rails. The objective is to help them understand the key components of a Rails application, including models, controllers, and views.

Instructions:

Step 1: Set Up a New Rails Application

Instruct students to create a new Ruby on Rails application using the command line.
bash
Copy code
rails new MyCRUDApp
Guide them through the process of generating the necessary files and directory structure.
Step 2: Define the Data Entity

Ask students to define a simple data entity for their CRUD application. This could be something like "Tasks," "Notes," or any other entity they choose.
Guide them to generate a model class for the chosen data entity, specifying the attributes it will have.
bash
Copy code
rails generate model Task title:string description:text
Step 3: Create Controllers and Views

Instruct students to generate a controller for the data entity.
bash
Copy code
rails generate controller Tasks
Guide them to create the necessary views for actions such as listing all items, showing a single item, creating a new item, updating an item, and deleting an item.
Step 4: Implement CRUD Operations

Walk students through implementing the CRUD operations for their chosen data entity:
Create: Explain how to create a new item using the form in the view. Guide them to use the form_for helper in the view to create a form for creating new tasks.
Read: Guide them to display a list of all items and allow users to view individual items. Show them how to loop through the tasks and display their details.
Update: Explain how to edit and update existing items using forms. Show them how to create an edit form and update the attributes of a task.
Delete: Instruct them to provide the ability to delete items from the application. Explain how to create a delete link that sends a DELETE request to the server.
Step 5: Test and Validate

Encourage students to test the application by running it locally and interacting with the CRUD functionality.
Ask them to ensure that each CRUD operation works as expected and that data is being manipulated correctly.
Additional Instructions:

Hands-On Practice: Emphasize the importance of hands-on practice to understand the process of building a CRUD application.
Documentation: Encourage students to document their process, including any challenges they faced and how they resolved them.
Assessment:
Students' applications will be assessed based on the successful implementation of CRUD functionality, adherence to the provided instructions, and the quality of their documentation.

Submission:
Students should submit their completed CRUD application code and any relevant documentation through the designated platform by [submission deadline].

By completing this assignment, students will gain practical experience in building a basic CRUD application using Ruby on Rails, reinforcing their understanding of models, controllers, and views.